Initial January community update (#1649)
writethedocs/www: docs/blog/2022-january-community-update.rst

.. post:: Jan 13, 2022
   :tags: stats, year in review, newsletter
   :author: Eric Holscher

Write the Docs Community Kickoff - January 2022
===============================================

Hey folks, Eric Holscher here, one of the co-founders of Write the Docs.

> This is the January edition of the newsletter,
> which has a community update to give the newsletter team the month off.
> We'll keep it a bit shorter this year,
> but did want to update you on the community overall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I'm here with the traditional January community update replacement to the newsletter. 
It's a short one this year.
```

New hybrid conference format
----------------------

> Thanks to everyone who attended our virtual events in 2021.
> We had record attendance in Portland and Prague this year,
> and took a well-deserved break in Australia to let the community there have a rest.
> We continue to appreciate the warmth and spirit that you bring to our virtual events,
> and look forward to more of it in 2022.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to everyone who attended our virtual events in 2021.
We had record attendance in Portland and Prague, and the 
Australian team took a well-deserved break.
We continue to appreciate the warmth and spirit that you bring to our virtual events,
and look forward to more of it in 2022.
```

> Our goal this year is to tentatively, and safely, come back to the in-person realm with our conferences.
> We're working to do this without losing the accessibility of the virtual events.
> Managing in-person and virtual is going to be a learning experience,
> but we think it will be worth it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our goal this year is to tentatively, and safely, bring our conferences back to 
the in-person realm while keeping the improved accessibility provided by the
virtual events.
Managing hybrid in-person *and* virtual conferences is going to be a huge 
learning experience, but we think it will be worth it.
```

Reviewer 2: "Managing a hybrid" -> "Managing hybrid"

We hope that you'll work with us to make all of our events special by submitting talks,

> and showing up with enthusiasm and warmth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and showing up with your usual enthusiasm and warmth.
```

Credit to Janine Chan who authored this WEP,
and is the new lead of the Slack moderation team.

We're also excited to kick off another round of our **Salary Survey**.
This is the third year that we've been doing that,
and we've gotten a lot of great feedback.
Thanks to Kay Smoljak who continues to manage that for us.

I'd like to share a few pieces of anonymous feedback that show the value of this information to our community:

> Thank you for running this survey! I used last year's results, along with some other sources, to request a review of my salary this year. I was promoted and given the biggest pay rise I've ever seen!

> I appreciate the opportunity to speak about my work conditions, salary, experience, and to see how this fits into the bigger picture around the world. Thank you Write the Docs for making me feel like part of this community! Even as a lone writer, I don’t feel alone. Kind of like I’m in a union!

> Keep doing what you're doing! This survey REALLY helped me feel confident in my ask last year when I was negotiating a raise.

We are still working to build more engagement with our `Write the Docs Enhancement Proposal (WEP)`_ process.

> Having our community governance more formalized (and documented) is one of our continuing goals,
> and ensuring people have a voice in how the organization is run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having our community governance more formalized (and documented) is one of our continuing goals,
as is ensuring that people in the community have a voice in how the organization is run.
```

.. _Write the Docs Enhancement Proposal (WEP): https://www.writethedocs.org/blog/introducing-weps/

Other community updates
-----------------------

We have shared our high-level community stats for the past 5 years,
and will continue to do it each year going forward.

> You can view our 2020 stats on our blog at :doc:`/blog/write-the-docs-2021-stats`.

Author: #TODO
